I will first explain the 18th century viewpoint before the 20th century viewpoint.
This is because the 18th century viewpoint has no ambiguities within it.
Within the 20th century viewpoint, ideas and semantics about the word as "worth" alter, and vary,
the relationship of the transformation of when the worth of a specific item happens to become doubled.
Now, I shall expatiate upon the word as "worth".
Put ten apples on the left-hand side of a see-saw; and put money, one pound of money, on the right-hand side of this see-saw.
Let the worth of these ten apples be one pound.
This worth of apples doubles.
The worth of these apples is now two pounds.
Draw a table, as you did before, where apples and money are from left to right, in the columns, and apples and money are from top to bottom, in the rows.
We have just calculated the one-to-one ratio has become transformed to a one-to-two ratio in the north-east cell.
Let us find out what the transformation is in the south-west cell.
To do this, we put one pound of money on the left-hand side of the see-saw, and we put ten apples on the right-hand side of the see-saw.
We say that, before the transformation, the worth of one pound is ten apples. Now, the worth of one pound doubles.
By the eighteenth century viewpoint, the worth of one pound is now twenty apples.
So, a one-to-one ratio has become transformed into a one-to-two ratio. This is in the south-west cell.
We see that this table is syntactically consistent: has not been inconsistent;
the transformation is symmetrical, irregardless of which item is on the left side of the see-saw.
So, what is this eighteenth century concept as "worth"?
Well, I suspect that it is the inter-play between one person's demand for an item, and the reluctance on behalf of the owner to part with this item.
The twentieth century concept of worth; at least, the latter half of the twentieth century concept of worth,
becomes invested with emotional artistic expression, inspiration, time and effort.
In the eighteenth century, "worth" pertained to something extrinsic, such as the inter-play between my demand, and your reluctance to part with the item:
specified the amount of money which would be agreed to be parted with upon purchasing such an item.
I recall from Nelson Mandela's autobiographical book, The Long Walk to Freedom, how journalistic inquiries had changed when he was released from prison,
in comparison to when he went to prison.
He said that, later, people talked about feelings and emotions; whereas prior, in the twentieth century, people talked about facts, and the case.
I have, this far, deliberately avoided using the word as "value".
I will use this word later in the text, but not yet.
What I am doing is defining concepts, axioms, and postulates, linguistically, and developing theorems based upon these definitions, axioms, and postulates;
although I am not as rigorous as Euclid was, in the way I present my material.
The twentieth century concept of the word as "worth" is very much addled.
To illustrate this point, if we place money on the left side of the see-saw, and ten apples on the right, and we ask: when the one pound of money doubles in worth,
how many apples will it then exchange for (?),
one person might say five; another person might say twenty.
One person might say five, and then changes mind, and subsequently says twenty.
The third person might say: well, if the worth of one pound doubles, then one pound is now worth two pounds, and two pounds can now purchase twenty apples;
so, one pound can still only purchase ten.
We actually have three answers for this question:
we have, no change in the ratio;
we have, a transformation of a change of two-to-one; and we have a transformation of a change of one-to-two.
Please note that the transformation of the ratio into one-to-two was the same as the eighteenth century concept.
Alternatively, if we put apples on the left side of the see-saw, and money on the right, and say that the worth of ten apples doubles:
how many pounds can be had in exchange for ten apples subsequently (?);
people sometimes infer that ten apples will exchange for fifty pence, and sometimes they infer that ten apples will subsequently exchange for two pounds.
There is no agreement upon the word as "worth" in the twenty-first century:
at least, in the beginning of the twenty-first century, I should add.
It is as though the person in the twenty-first century, may assume that the worth of something is the amount of it:
the quantity of apples on the left-hand side, or the quantity of money on the left-hand side.
Likewise, another person or, indeed, the same person, upon changing his or her mind, in the twenty-first century,
may equally infer that the word as "worth" refers to a transformation of one-to-one into one-to-two.
Here, the person is inferring that worth is something extrinsic to the object in question, i.e. not the amount of it,
but the amount of something that one may exchange it by.
And in doing so, this person, who I shall refer to as "one", is using the eighteenth century viewpoint.
One may use the eighteenth century viewpoint, or one may not.
If not, one may infer no change at all, or one may infer a one-to-one ratio becoming transformed into a two-to-one ratio, left-hand side to right-hand side.
Within the twenty-first century, the semantic meaning of the word as "worth" is unclear:
it may be one thing, but then again, it may be a contradictory thing.  So, the word itself is broken,
because it doesn't actually mean anything grammatically, syntactically, or semantically:
because the semantics will change the syntax of its meaning.
Like many of the prepositions, its semantics is chaotic, and is fundamentally broken.
To deprive somebody of language is a terrible event; and because different people don't agree on the meaning of words themselves,
the language itself has achieved a state of deprivation towards the general populace in the English-speaking world:
I believe at this present time.
Here ends my discussion about the word as "worth".